Hi, everyone, in this year, we are going to talk about the dynamic global variables and the strict
marked.
All right, so before starting this lecture, I can see there is a typo inside the name, there is a
missing dynamic global variable and there is one missing here very long.
That's why this happened.
So let's add it right here.
Let's save it.
So we do have access to it.
Let's open up a life server and now we are going to go to inspect.
All right.
So what do we have here?
So we have, again, a formal declaration here.
Now we have a code snippet here.
And and you can see that I have commented our line number two, line number six, line number 10 to
12 because we are going to go through them.
All right.
Now, what I want to say is there is a difference here and there and there are differences in line number
four and line number five, because this different difference is related to dynamic global variables.
There is another mistake here as well.
It doesn't matter.
I'm not going to fix it.
You can fix it yourselves because I should dive into this lecture and why you should, like, generally
use strict mode inside your applications.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's talk about this.
How so?
There are two stages.
We know that there are two stages.
The first stages, the completion stage inside of which we make the execution plan.
And inside the one, the second stage is the execution of the code inside which we pass into the VM
or to the JavaScript engine, the execution plan, so that engine can execute this code.
All right, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to go smoothly over the compilation stage and the execution
stage, and then we are going to discuss what dynamic global variables or auto globalists are, what
is what is good about them, what is bad about them, OK, and what what they are, what there even
are.
So at the end, the compilation stage, we are interested in finding formal declarations and also setting
values to them and the execution stage.
We grab those formal declarations and we go from there.
We grab the value of these formal declarations and we store them inside like and we allocate a specific
place in memory to them.
All right.
So on line one, the compiler is is going to ask the scope manager, have you heard of any variable
called novel?
Because this is the first instance of this variable, then the scope manager is going to say no, but
is going to give you give the compiler a scope and that is the global scope.
So this is going to be present inside the global scale.
Then we are going to come to line number three, which is a formal declaration, a function declaration.
And the identifier is other book.
The compiler is going to ask the scope manager, have you heard of this?
Have you heard about this or of this?
And the scope manager is going to say no, but is going to give out the box inside, which we are going
to put this book.
And that box is still the global scope, right?
That is the global box.
Inside this function, we have a novel, but this is not a formal declaration because we don't have
any, like, declarative keywords like Varlet and CONSED and we come to line number five, the same
cases here.
This is not a formal declaration.
Then we are going to come because compiler is interested in formal declarations and finding the assignment
expressions for those formal declarations.
Line number six is a formal declaration, but it is commented out.
So this code is a common, this is a common.
This is not a code.
So it doesn't run.
It is not compiled.
Consider log is not a formal declaration.
So we go out of this function, we go to and line number ten to 12.
We don't have any formal declarations.
So now the plan is completed.
What is inside the plan?
Inside the plan, we have a variable and I'd add an identifier called novel, which is present inside
the global scope.
And the other thing that we have inside the plan is we have another function declaration or another
formal declaration by the name of another book, and that is present inside the global scope as well.
So we have our identifiers and we have our scopes.
Now we hand over this plan to the execution engine.
The execution engine is going to again get in contact with the scope manager, not the compiler, the
scope manager.
And it is going to take a look at the role that these identifiers they play.
So their role is either going to be a target reference or a source reference.
So if there are a source, if there are targeted reference, their value is going to be stored.
If there is a source reference, they're going to be called.
And then again, their value is going to be like their value is going to be are going to find their
value and we are going to store that.
So if we when we come here, we can see that this is a Targo reference.
So we grabbed this value and restore it somewhere so we can access it later.
This is what the execution engine is going to do.
Then it is going to come in here.
But because this is a function and the function must be called, it is going to skip over.
The function has been compiled, but the function requires calling.
So in here we have a source reference and this other book is going to call this function.
But this parentheses is what is going to execute this function.
So because of this parentheses, we are going to come to line number all the a line number four and
we are going to enter this function.
So we are going to jump over this function to where the function is called and we are going to come
back to function.
Right.
So now this other book is in the source reference.
How how do we get the source?
We go to back to the function inside the function.
We have a it is not a formal declaration, but we see that we have it and an identifier by the name
of novel and there is a value to it.
So we need to store this value.
Right.
We need to grab it and we need to store it.
But this is not a formal declaration.
How do we store this?
This is a target reference, right?
So we are going to ask the scope of this function.
Have you heard of this novel?
The scope is going to say no, the function scope.
We know that this novel is inside this function, but the function scope, we never assigned any scope
to this.
So we know we don't know what the scope of this is.
So it is this novel is not like it is initialized or like formally declared inside this function.
So whenever something some identifier is not formally declared inside a scope or in this case, inside
this functions go, it is going to go one level up.
And what it is going to go one level up.
It is going to come to the global scope.
The execution engine is going to ask the global scope, like, what have you like what is this novel,
the global scope?
Well, we would like the global scope for the global scope to say no, because this novel doesn't have
any let consider far.
But the global scope is going to say, yeah, I know what this novel is.
It is a formal declaration and I assign it to a scope right now.
Now, keep in mind, whenever we are working with formal declarations, they are assigned to their scopes
at compile time.
But this novel, this was not assigned to its scope at compile time.
It was assigned to its scope at runtime because at runtime this novel came up OK.
Well, actually, this is not accurate because we do have a novel declaration here.
When this novel comes up, the value of a thousand splendid suns is going to change to the value of
a map and the mountains echoed.
That's why if I go ahead and if I comment in this novel, we are going to see a thousand splendid suns.
But if I comment in the novel, after the function is executed, we are going to see that the novel
now says and the mountains echoed because when this.
Identifier because JavaScript is a lexically scoped language when this comes up, it is going to because
this has been in, Dekel declared, not also initialized, of course, but when this comes here, it's
when it comes here, this value for the novel is going to be replaced by this one.
We know this.
OK, this is going to be replaced by that, that this is not something new.
But the important part is this topic.
And this novel is not a dynamic global variable because the identifier was created here.
The identifier is created there.
So we didn't do anything new.
It moved one level up, OK, it moved up, but it did not convert to a dynamic global variable when
the topic, it moves one level up because there is no topic declared in the global scope.
We should see an error rate because this is not a formal declaration.
And we said that novel is not a formal declaration as well, but a novel is not a formal declaration
inside this function scope, but it is a formal declaration inside the global scope.
That's why we see the value for it.
So this when it comes inside the global scope, it is a formal declaration, right?
Because we have formally declared war novel equals this value.
We have just changed a value that set.
But when the topic comes up like this, we don't see any Varin here or any letton here, but still we
are not going to see any error.
The reason for that is at the early days, in the early days when when JavaScript was created and because
like JavaScript was difficult.
All right, they created, like the idea of Auto Global's and whenever you just go ahead and write an
identifier and assign a value to it, it is not going to throw an error.
OK, and it is going to assign a four letter const the the JavaScript is going to assign itself.
But this this variable, this identifier doesn't have a scope.
And when it comes up at the execution time, this scope is going to is going to be assigned to it as
the global scope and the difference between this topic and this novel, as I hope I'm not getting you
confused, is that when the novel came up, we did have a formal declaration for the novel.
It is right here.
So this is not an auto global.
But when this topic came up, it became an auto global.
What is it now to global?
Ainata Global is any identifier whose scope is determined at runtime, not at compile time.
So all these scopes we talked about how at compile time we want to know what our identifiers are and
what their scope is, but we didn't know what this identifier is and what the scope is.
We knew what this identifier is and what the scope is because it has been defined here and we know we
knew it would travel one level up.
So we knew what the scope for this was.
The scope for this from the start was global scope, but we didn't know what the scope for the topic
was.
We knew that it would travel one level up, but we didn't know what the scope was.
And the scope is the global scope.
Right.
And this scope is determined at runtime.
This is the problem with not formally declaring your your variables.
Now, you're not going to see, like, much of a difference.
This is a bad practice when you do it this way.
This is a really, really bad practice among the community.
But the problem is like the biggest there are there is a lot of differences, but the biggest one is
the performance issue.
All right.
And as a business practice, never under any circumstance like create or to globalize like this.
So how do we know that this topic is actually in the global scope?
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to comment on this council log because this council log is
actually in the global scope as well.
So if this topic is not inside the global scope, we should see an error.
When I say that, we can see that it's says family.
So this council log it access.
This is in the source position and it needs to retrieve the value of this novel.
So the value of this novel, sorry, sorry, the value of this topic was not retrieved from inside.
This function is it was retrieved like this.
OK, so this execution engine executed, executed, executed this code as though this topic is inside
the global scope because JavaScript is a lexically scoped language, and whenever we cannot find the
reference for any identifier, we go one level up, as with this console lock.
So we go one level of the console log goes one level up.
And there we either find it or we don't.
If we find it, we just log it.
Or if we don't find it, we are going to throw an error.
Right.
So I hope this is clear as well.
So this was another coroner case, but what about this?
Let we know we do have a letter here and this is a formal declaration.
Right.
So the scope of this, because let they are block scopes, OK, their scope is different.
Alafia six, we have blocks.
So.
Well, ESX is not the correct terminology.
The correct terminology is E 2015 as a first 2015.
We have block scopes as well.
So that creates a block scope.
OK, so whenever we have this, does this travel one level up as well.
No lead does not travel let is limited to its scope and cost the limited to their scope.
So whenever I counsel log no here, we are going to get a reference here because we could not reference
the value for this identifier.
What is the value for this number?
The execution engine doesn't know what the value is because inside the global scope, we don't have
any formal declaration inside which the identifier has a name call number.
So it says no is not defined.
We have not defined it inside the global scope.
Of course, inside this function scope, we do have it.
But because this is limited to this scope, it is not going to travel one level up.
That's why we cannot access it here.
Right.
So now this is this topic is an error, right.
So how do we how can we make sure that in our applications we avoid creating articles?
There is another feature of JavaScript, which is by default off, and that is the strict might.
Whenever you go ahead to the top of your application, just write this up in quotes and write you strict.
It means that now we are switching to the strict mode and we see we should see some errors being thrown
around.
And now in here we see that topic is not defined at other book and at here.
So it is not defined at other it is not defined in here online.
No sex and it is not also defined on this other book.
And we cannot call it in here as well.
OK, on line number 10, this it did not even come to here, OK?
It couldn't call it there.
So I'm just going to go ahead and reload the page.
We can see that we have this this this has been printed to the to the screen because we are in the strict
mode.
But what about this?
So if I were to grab this and put it down here, we can see that because there is an error here, nothing
after that is as has been executed.
So this error is actually in the compilation stage.
In the compilation stage.
We don't know what this topic belongs to, what we don't know what it belongs to.
We know that this novel belongs to this novel right here, even though this novel is beneath dysfunction,
dysfunction, dysfunction called because function call is on line number nine and this var is on line
number thirteen.
But when this comes out of here, it is going to be assigned to the value of novel right here.
That's why the topic is not defined.
But the novel is actually defined right here, even though it's here because JavaScript doesn't run
it line by line, it compiles it first.
We grab all the identifiers, we grab all the scopes, and then we present it to the execution engine.
We don't know what the scope for this is.
That's why the execution engine runs a reference letter.
It means that we don't know what this topic what is the reference of this topic?
We don't know whether or not this is a target reference or this is a source reference.
So this is a good practice to use struct inside your applications.
And in case you're wondering the strict mode, if if your applications are going to crash or if you
will be able to to use any specific feature of JavaScript when the stroke mode is on or not.
No, there is not actually any real thing like that.
So.
Just keep in mind that in er six classes and modules, we are going to.
We are going to talk about Iesus six classes, the strict mode is assumed, so you do not need to turn
it on.
It is.
It is also on in JavaScript transpires such as babble, OK, and other tools like that.
But in your regular JavaScript the strike mode is off.
And that that is like one of the first things that JavaScript developers like the creators of JavaScript
decided on.
So you can turn it on.
But if you're using JavaScript classes, district mode is assumes you don't do not need to turn it on.
This is it for this lecture.
Now we know how we know concretely how JavaScript runs and what is the strict mode, what are different
scopes?
How are the identifiers assigned to different scopes?
And what we are going to do in the next lecture is we are going to talk about the nested scope and our
discussion of this chapter is going to come to an end.
See you guys in the next lecture.